[ADD] Create Envia Shipping Doc (#12084)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/shipping_receiving/setup_configuration/envia_shipping.rst

=====================
Envia.com integration
=====================

Envia is a shipping service aggregator that facilitates the integration in several continents. Once
integrated, users can select shipping carriers on inventory operations in their Odoo database.

Setup in Envia
==============

> 

Author: I copied this one from sendcloud doc :p

Create an account and activate carriers
---------------------------------------

> If you don’t have an account, we recommend heading to `Envia.com <https://www.envia.com>`_.

Author: Navigate to :menuselection:`Setttings --> Print Options and Carriers`, on the left menu, then select your country
and the available options are displayed, if an option can be activated click on :guilabel:`Activate` and if it is already active, the services can be individually selected on the :guilabel:`Services` button. 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0805a75e-60dd-4fa6-92bc-1c1097eb78ca)

.. image:: envia_shipping/Envia_Registry_Process.png

>    :alt: Registry process in website with Envia.com.

Author: I had a lot of marks here prior to submitting it due to guidelines, the main thing I wanted to emphasize is that you need to pick the right language because if you don't, the company currency will be set to the one corresponding to that language, this is a very important step.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5b88f6c2-375b-4675-ac52-c42095810749)

Here is the dashboard, the next step is clicking on developers and everything on line 38, I think is not as complex for the user to follow, but I can add another screenshot if necesary, I just think it is VERY important that the user picks the right country/language because there can be a lot of "english" but there is one for Canada, Australia... etc.

.. tip::
   Make sure to select the appropriate country for your main billing. If you have multicountry
   operations, you can also create two separate accounts, but the billing will be done in the main
   currency.

.. note::
   Envia will send an SMS or WhatsApp message to confirm your email address and phone number.

Generate Envia.com credentials
------------------------------

Go to Envia.com, navigate to :menuselection:`Developers --> API Keys`, on the left menu, then click
:guilabel:`add` to generate a new key.

This API key is the one we will request in Odoo, you can always come back for it.

.. image:: envia_shipping/envia_token.png
   :alt: API Keys in Envia.com.

Setup in Odoo
=============

Install Envia.com shipping module
---------------------------------

On Odoo’s :guilabel:`Apps` module, search for the `Envia Shipping` integration, and install it.

.. image:: envia_shipping/envia_mod.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Envia module to install in Odoo.

Envia.com shipping connector configuration
------------------------------------------

> After activating the Envia.com Connector, go to the Delivery Methods page and click Create.
> 
> .. tip::
>    :guilabel:`Shipping Methods` can also be accessed by going to :menuselection:`Inventory -->
>    Configuration --> Delivery --> Shipping Methods`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After activating the Envia.com connector, create a delivery method by going to
:menuselection:`Inventory --> Configuration --> Delivery Methods` and click :guilabel:`New`.
```

> Fill out the following fields in the New Delivery Method form:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fill out the following form fields:
```

> - :guilabel:`Shipping Method`: Type `Shipping carrier name`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Shipping Method`: Name of the shipping method, e.g. `Envia.com`.
```

- :guilabel:`Provider`: Select :guilabel:`Envia` from the drop-down menu.

> - :guilabel:`Delivery Product`: Set the product that was configured for this shipping method, or
>   create a new product. A default Envia.com product is provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Delivery Product`: The product listed on the sales order as the delivery charge. A
  specific delivery product for Envia.com must be created.
```

- In the :guilabel:`Envia Configuration` tab, enter the :guilabel:`Envia Production Access Token`.
- In the :guilabel:`Envia Configuration` tab, enter the :guilabel:`Envia Sandbox Access Token`.

> - Manually :guilabel:`Save` the form by clicking the cloud icon next to the :guilabel:`Shipping
>   Methods / New` breadcrumbs.

Reviewer: I don't think we need to save this, unless we first need to fill out the API credentials before certain fields below this line appear. If certain fields appear on the form AFTER we save, then please ignore this suggestion (:
```suggestion
```

Author: I copied this line from sendcloud as well :p

- :guilabel:`Insurance percentage`: If insurance is needed, place a percentage of the value to

>   insure, if not, it can be left as 0. Keep in mind that the insurance price is calculated only
>   after the label has been generated. This also applies to LTL shipments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  insure. If not, leave it as 0. Keep in mind that the insurance price is calculated only after the
  label has been generated, including for LTL shipments.
```

.. tip::
   It is mandatory to fill both the production and sandbox tokens, but it could be left with just a
   random character as it is not validated at this point.

Additional considerations for the :guilabel:`Envia Default Package`:

> - The package is specified in :guilabel:`mm` and :guilabel:`kg`. Keep in mind that the weight is for
>   the container alone and not its contents, it can be left as 0 for no reported weight and 0 in max
>   weight for no specified limit weight.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The package is specified in :guilabel:`mm` and :guilabel:`kg`. The weight refers to the container
  itself, not its contents. Leave the weight as 0 if no weight is reported, and set the max weight
  to 0 if there is no specified limit.
```

> - :guilabel:`Envia Package Type`: It is set to Box by default. Make sure to select the appropriate
>   one since it will be used to display available carriers and options as they change depending on
>   this field.

Reviewer: What other options are there? It would be nice to list them!
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Envia Package Type`: Set to :guilabel:`Box` by default. Ensure you select the
  correct type, as it affects the available carriers and options displayed, which vary depending on
  this selection.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Once previous fields are properly set, sync the carriers. A pop-up window will appear, select a

Reviewer: What do I need to click in Odoo to sync the carriers? Being specific as possible: name of the button, in which tab it is, will be helpful for users who don't know where to look

Author: It doesn't have a name, it is a server action with an icon: 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/05b567a6-9168-49ab-90f4-5bc5086a984f)

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3561ce9f-beb0-4100-88d2-85a95a7145d2)

Maybe something like:

 In the :guilabel:`Envia Configuration` tab, click on the :guilabel:`Sync Button`. [MAYBE ADD A PIC?] to sync the carriers and a pop-up appears

carrier and a service level from the list:

.. image:: envia_shipping/envia_popup.png
   :alt: Envia.com carrier and services popup.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. important::
   Envia keeps the main currency of the account fixed. In order to provide more precise conversions
   for the costs of shipping, specify the currency that is set for your account on Envia. If
   necessary, Odoo offers the option to change your country. By default it uses the country
   associated with your company.

.. note::
   If more than one shipping option is needed, create more shipping methods in Odoo and modify any
   parameter like the package, carrier, or service.

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/envia-shipping-info:

Shipping information
--------------------

To use Envia.com to generate shipping labels, the following information **must** be filled out
accurately and completely in Odoo:

#. **Customer information**: When creating a quotation, ensure the selected :guilabel:`Customer` has
   a valid phone number, email address, and shipping address.

>    To verify, select the :guilabel:`Customer` field to open their contact page. Here, Add their shipping address in the :guilabel:`Contact` field, along with their :guilabel:`Mobile` number and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To verify, select the :guilabel:`Customer` field to open their contact page. Here, add their
   shipping address in the :guilabel:`Contact` field, along with their :guilabel:`Mobile` number and
```

   :guilabel:`Email` address.

#. **Product weight**: Ensure all products in a delivery order have a specified :guilabel:`Weight`
   in the :guilabel:`Inventory` tab of their product form. Refer to the :ref:`Product weight section
   <inventory/shipping_receiving/configure-weight>` of this article for detailed instructions.

> #. **Warehouse address**: By default all packages will be sent from the specified address in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. **Warehouse address**: By default all packages are sent from the specified address in the
```

   warehouse, make sure to set the address for correct label generation.

Address filling guide
---------------------

Each country has rules regarding how an address is filled. This is a comprehensive guide of each
country's expected fields exceptions:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Country
     - Street
     - Street 2
     - City
     - State_id
   * - Argentina
     - Street and number
     - Locality
     - City
     - Province
   * - Brazil
     - Exception
     - Neighborhood
     - City
     - State
   * - Chile
     - Street and number
     - City
     - Commune
     - Region
   * - Colombia
     - Street and number
     - Not needed
     - Municipality
     - Department
   * - Guatemala
     - Street and number
     - Neighborhood
     - City
     - State
   * - Mexico
     - Street and number
     - Neighborhood
     - City
     - State
   * - Uruguay
     - Street and number
     - Complementary info
     - Locality
     - State

> Countries not listed here should be filled as normal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Countries not listed here should be entered normally
```

.. note::
   For some countries, the zip code is not commonly requested. If empty, Odoo will use Envia's zip
   approximation services to get the zip code.

>    For Colombia, the zip code is extracted from the city selected in city_id if the localization is
>    installed, otherwise Odoo will use the zip field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For Colombia, the zip code is extracted from the city selected in `city_id` if the localization
   is installed, otherwise Odoo will use the zip field.
```

.. note::

>    Colombia and Mexico have a list of cities referred to as city_id in Odoo. If city_id is set, it
>    will be used as the city field. If not set, then Odoo will try to use the city field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Colombia and Mexico have a list of cities referred to as `city_id` in Odoo. If `city_id` is set,
   it is used as the city field. If not set, then Odoo will try to use the city field.
```

.. note::
   In Mexico, some carriers might require the :guilabel:`Colony` field, commonly known as
   neighborhood. It is not always mandatory, but if required the installation of the :guilabel:`EDI
   for Mexico (Advanced Features)` module will be needed.

.. note::

>    In Brazil the address is split to comply with regulation, so street_name is used for the street
>    name only. street_number1 is used for the street number and street_number2 is used for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In Brazil the address is split to comply with regulation, so `street_name` is used for the street
   name only. `street_number1` is used for the street number and street_number2 is used for the
```

   complement. This logic also applies if the :guilabel:`Extended Addresses` module is installed.

Generate labels with Envia
==========================

When creating a quotation in Odoo, add shipping and the :guilabel:`Envia.com shipping product`.
Then, :guilabel:`Validate` the delivery. Shipping label documents are automatically generated in the
chatter, which include the following:

#. :guilabel:`Shipping label(s)` depending on the number of packages.
#. :guilabel:`Return label(s)` if the Envia.com connector is configured for returns.

.. important::
   When labels are created, Envia.com automatically charges the configured account and the final

>    amount is logged in the chatter. If multi-currency operations occur, the amount logged will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   amount is logged in the chatter. If multi-currency operations occur, the amount logged is
```

   calculated using Odoo's rate. Actual rates may vary.

Additionally, the tracking number is now available.

.. note::
   Brazilian Authorities might request the invoice related to the shipping (NFe). It is recommended
   to physically attach the invoice of the order along with the label.

International shipping
----------------------

For international shipments it is required to fill both the :guilabel:`HS code` and the country of
:guilabel:`Origin of Goods`, both can be found on the product’s :guilabel:`Inventory tab`.

LTL Shipments
-------------

> LTL shipment labels can be generated through the connector. The insurance for LTL shipments is
> covered under the insurance percentage value at the delivery method’s form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LTL shipment labels can be generated through the Envia connector. The insurance for LTL shipments is
based on the *insurance percentage* specified in the delivery method's form.
```

.. important::
   For Mexico, since a Bill of Landing needs to be created for the shipment, Odoo is required to
   send the UNSPSC code of the contents, as well as a unit of measure for transportation which is
   **X8A - Pallet de madera** as default.

.. note::

>    Additional services are available when you select `pallet` as an option, which allows to select

Reviewer: Is pallet a Envia package type?

```suggestion
   Additional services are available when you select `pallet` as a :guilabel:`Envia Package Type` on the delivery method, which allows you to select 
```

order or using the tracking link from the customer portal.

.. image:: envia_shipping/envia_customer_portal_tracking.png
   :alt: Customer portal tracking.

Cancellations can be requested directly, see :ref:`Cancel section
<inventory/shipping_receiving/setup_configuration/cancel>`

FAQ
===

Measuring volumetric weight
---------------------------

Many carriers have several measurements for weight. There is the actual weight of the products in
the parcel, and the volumetric weight. Volumetric weight is the volume that a package occupies when
in transit, i.e. the physical size of a package.

.. note::
   Due to volumetric weight, it is possible that the actual weight in the label is higher than the
   calculated value.

Which printing options are available?
-------------------------------------

On Envia.com in :menuselection:`Settings --> Print options and Carriers printing options` for each
of your carriers are displayed, make sure to use the appropriate format for the chosen carrier.

The needed service is not available
-----------------------------------

For available carriers, make sure that they are enabled through Envia.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
